//// homepage texts

We’ll Cross the Bridge Once We’ve Reached the River
Hello
is a radio-transmitted show. To subscribe to a show, please read the following information.
The next show starts on
You will be at home on the evening of the show and you will hear what happens on stage. This show was written for you (well, not just for you, but also for those who came to the theatre, but let’s just say it was not designed for them alone).
In addition, we are providing you with this little checklist below to ensure you have everything you need to fully enjoy the show. Tick the boxes that apply to your situation, if you have more than 5 green circles on the drawing then it should be fine, but basically it’s up to you.
Goodness grapefruit! We detect that you are using a browser that is incompatible with our web-app. It’s highly likely that the audio won’t work at all, so not much will happen on your end. The good news is that there’s a solution to this problem: install
and return to this page. This text should have disappeared, all going to plan. 
Ensure you have a good internet connection
Be at home, alone
Be able to turn the sound up a bit
Use a laptop, to be able to move with your computer
And of course, be available at that time
Have a WEB-RTC-compatible browser (automatic test)
To reserve your ticket to an at-home show, click on one of the dates below. It’s free and obligation-free, but you have to do this to be able to access the show.
UPCOMING DATES:
Okay, you have been registered for the show on
Let’s meet back at that time, here, on
If you change your mind and would like to participate at another time, feel free to return to this website and click on another date.

//// buttons and instructions

REGISTER ME
REGISTRATION OK
YES
NO
UM...
OK, I’VE FINISHED MY HUT
Wait, are you sure you’re really all set, very comfortably installed? Have you made a real hut? Do you have a hot drink? Lots of cushions? You still have time to perfect your installation before confirming that you’ve well and truly finished.
RIGHTO, THIS TIME I’VE REALLY SETTLED IN COMFORTABLY WITH MY HOT DRINK
Call this number: 33 (0)7 81 89 76 86 (And cut the sound on your computer! Otherwise it’ll make weird noises).
Are you ready to answer Jacques’ questions?
Are you willing to build a hut?

//// textes Spectateurs à la maison + Surtitrage + Cyclo (version Mousonturm SEPT.2017)

Can you press the space key please? (Or touch your screen if you’re on a tablet)
There.
That's it.
Perfect.
This is Samuel.
I work with the team on this project.
I handled the online side of things,
with Etienne and Guillaume.
Anyway.
Right now I’m in the theatre,
in the sound and lighting booth.
We are preparing the arrival of the spectators
and I’m here to help with your arrival: that of our at-home audience.
Welcome.
I’ll try to bring up your display in full-screen, because it’s better.
There.
Did it work?
Otherwise you can try to do it yourself.
It can’t be that hard...
So now we’ll activate the sound.
There.
You should hear something, right?
If it doesn’t work, then that’s a problem.
Wait for a bit,
And, as required, try on a different browser.
One more thing, it’s possible that sometimes
it’ll cut out,
that it’ll be a bit clipped,
that kind of thing.
Don’t worry,
it happens.
However,
if the sound ever stops completely, just refresh the webpage.
Anyhow, before the show starts,
we’ll prepare a few little things,
and we’ll wait for all the listeners to show up.
So, if you like you can go do the dishes,
or read a comic,
or put away the washing,
whatever you like.
Try to stay within earshot,
so that we can call you.
Feel free to turn the sound up to keep listening from your computer from wherever you are.
We’ll meet back here around 7:55 pm.
Good evening, dear listeners,
welcome to this rendition of We’ll Cross the Bridge Once We’ve Reached the River.
I am currently in Frankfurt at the Mousonturm theatre, which is still empty.
The doors will soon be opening.
So, thank you for accepting to participate in this experience,
I’ll speak to you in a few moments about the optimal conditions required for your evening to run smoothly,
but before that, I’m going to ask the technical booth if everything’s fine.
Yes, we’re good.
I’m receiving positive signals; everything seems ready,
so I’ll head to the soundproof booth that is on the stage, to continue my explanations...
Here we are. It’s handy, because now no one can hear me in the theatre.
The first spectators are going to enter the room any minute now
and you’ll hear them, as there are mikes installed throughout the seating.
We are of course delighted to have you with us,
we know that there are _XXX_ listeners present so far.
You are hearing me tonight by way of an audio channel, which is still under evaluation,
meaning that we are continually working to improve our connection.
If there’s a break tonight, don’t worry, it usually reconnects immediately.
You don’t have to do anything in particular, it happens, or at least it has happened in the past,
with some little bugs lasting one or two seconds. Don’t panic, the sound will return right away.
If the break starts to drag on, you can simply refresh the page.
In any case, I hope that for now you can hear me well and that should theoretically be the case.
So, first piece of advice: we will be together for a while,
so feel free to settle in comfortably, on your couch, on your chair, on your bed...
I don’t know where you are...
Here, the seats in the theatre are quite comfortable, but you, tonight, unlike the theatre-goers,
you’re lucky enough to be able to create your perfect listening post, so make the most of it.
Choose your cushions well, for instance, and find a comfortable position.
You can keep the computer close to you to watch, but you can also use it as ambient lighting.
Tonight, you will have no images of the show. That’s the principle of it: our connection is mainly based on sound elements.
You will also have textual elements,
but above all, as I was saying, you will have light on your screen,
which corresponds more or less to the lighting that we find here on stage.
We’ve already fooled around with turning the computer sideways, with the screen horizontal and the keyboard vertical – see?
The keyboard becomes the seating, and the screen kind of becomes the stage,
and so the lighting phases correspond quite faithfully to the lighting atmosphere found on stage;
it can give you information about colours, tones...
I also recommend that you experience this by yourself.
It’s just a bit of advice, because obviously if you’re with family or friends,
you can also follow the show, no worries,
but if you are alone you will surely has a slightly deeper experience.
You can immerse yourself more easily in the show.
It’s a bit late to tell you this, but ideally, you should be at home.
We will evoke environments this evening, the environments of each and every one of us
and if you are at home, the words, the story that we’ll tell you will surely resonate all the more.
Now I’m going to tell you about some of the technical conditions that could help you this evening.
I’ll start with the sound conditions:
I’m speaking to you now at an absolutely suitable level, into a microphone, in a booth.
If you can hear me well now, as I pronounce these words,
you’ll no doubt easily be able to follow the whole show.
Don’t worry, there won’t be any peaking in levels so don’t hesitate to adjust your volume correctly.
Obviously, my best advice to you, if you’re at home and have the right equipment,
is to plug into a pair of speakers or put on your favourite headphones,
which will allow you to have a richer sound and immerse you in the atmosphere.
Right, next I’m going to give you a few elements that you can prepare at home.
The first one is quite important, it’s a plant.
I don’t know where you are, if you’re in the lounge, the kitchen, the bedroom, the bathroom, or wherever,
but at any rate, it’d be great if you had a plant within arm’s reach.
It can be any kind of plant, green or otherwise. Your favourite plant or one that you never water,
but it would be good to have it near at hand, you’ll need it later...
Another element is a telephone. If you could please have it next to you.
Check that you have enough battery for it to last through the next hour or hour and a quarter...
Another instruction, which is quite fun: I’ll ask you to collect up some objects around the house.
So, let me explain: later, we’ll ask you to build something.
It’ll be quite basic, so don’t worry:  it’s what we might call a hut.
The little game that I’m suggesting to you now, for the next few minutes,
is to go gather up various elements that you could use to build your hut.
There are obviously all kinds of different huts, so I’ll give you some traditional examples,
we’re looking for sheets, for instance, chairs... It can be any kind of structure, if you have a clothes rack,
a table or desk base, a broom handle, or what have you.
Right, I’ll leave you for a few moments to go get all of that.
The idea is not to build the hut right now though,
but simply to gather up the materials so you can build it later.
You might also like to find the spot where you’d like to set it up, for instance...
In the meantime, I’m going to explain a circuit to you, a system that we’ll set up in the second part of the show.
I’m taking the liberty of explaining in advance, as things will go quite fast later.
So it’s a good idea for you, in your position at home, to have a technical perspective about what’s going to happen.
It’ll be a system to light up log fires.
Errr, when I say log fire, I’m thinking of electrical ones.
As you know, theatres comply with extremely strict safety conditions.
At home, you will set off a signal that will be sent to a server,
broadcast to the admin client, to the computer here that will manage all the data and transform it into a midi message,
which will be transmitted to the lighting console, which will send it in DMX to the dimmers,
which will then send it on in 220 V to the electrical log fires and thus trigger the lighting.
There we have it: very technical information, but later, when you’ll have the trigger button,
the detonator, as it were, that way you’ll have some idea of the full shockwave that will follow the little click you just did on your mouse.
Also, as I explained earlier, you won’t be able to see us,
but we won’t be able to see you either.
There is no camera system with any particular listener or whatever, you are all in the same boat.
Sébastien: Ah here we go, I see my two colleagues, Arnaud and Mathilde, arriving on stage.
They are holding signs to give the spectators in the theatre some information.
So, they are mainly going to explain to them that your are here tonight,
that you can hear us but not see us...
It’s important that everyone is more or less on the same page.
So they are down to their last signs, with which they are surely explaining
that I’m explaining to you that they are holding up signs. 
... They’ve just finished, they’re picking up their stuff, 
and going out by the door through which they entered.
... Ah, here we go, now I can hear my voice.
So the spectators in the theatre are now hearing me as well.  
Now we’re nearing the start of the show,
as I can see the seating is gradually being plunged into darkness,
while the stage is not yet lit up.
We are well and truly in that very special moment when we’re preparing to switch into the show. 
What is also amusing 
is that this moment of total blackout is simultaneously experienced by many other spectators...
I mean, there are always other shows 
starting at the same time in other places in the world...
For instance, tonight _XXX_ is starting, a show by _XXX_...
in _XXX_, at the _XXX_ theatre,
It was scheduled for _XXX_
Well, now it’s _XXX_
It probably started a bit late, as is the custom,  
and it is entirely possible that now,
exactly now,
at the moment that I pronounce these words,
the spectators of _XXX_ (theatre name) are plunged in the same obscurity,
that they too are ready to switch into the show.
Imagine it, you are _XXX_,
there is a fade to black in the theatre,  
you are settling into your seat, you are gradually entrenching yourself...
There’s probably someone coughing,
and so someone else will take the opportunity to cough too,
because they’re thinking “ah yes, I better cough too, just in case.”
Often that makes lots of people cough at the same time...
So, it’s starting now.
What will happen?
Anything’s possible.
Where will the actors arrive from and what will they do?
And among billions of possibilities,
it seems incredible – but after all, why not? –
it could well be that they are starting with a little exercise of mental projection,
by inviting you to imagine what other spectators are experiencing in other theatres at the same time. 
They will have done a search on the internet;
they might’ve come across our show, here, that’s starting now,
and that you would be imagining us here,
imagining that the lights slowly come on,
on an almost empty stage.
Sébastien — And that it would start, quite simply, with someone walking on the stage. 
Sébastien — In this case, it’s Mathilde.
She paces up and down the stage...
Mathilde — Well, you can note that Arnaud and Sébastien are also on stage.
Arnaud — Yes, but we are slightly out of the way...
We’re commenting.
Arnaud — We’ve also noticed that we can quite distinctly hear the sound of your footsteps.
Mathilde — Yes. But it would be a good idea to specify
that it is not the real sound of my footsteps.
Sébastien — Really?
Mathilde — No, actually. We really wanted to use the actual sound of actual footsteps,
but it was too complicated with the carpet.
We would’ve had to lift the levels of the mikes, which immediately caused feedback...
Sébastien — Ah OK.
You were right to point that out because...
It may not be the actual sound, but those are real footsteps.
I mean, you are actually walking.
The illusion is quite convincing.
... I mean, are you sure that that’s not the real sound?
Mathilde — Of course. Look.
So, there, Mathilde just stopped walking and yet the footsteps continue.
Now it’s fake sounds and fake footsteps.
Sébastien — She’s started again, 
so we’re back to the same configuration as before,
with real footsteps but fake sounds.
Mathilde (stops again) — Right, I can also show you what would happen without the carpet.
Arnaud — Ah yeah, so from there, we can kind of do what we like.
Mathilde — Yeah, after that, we can explore the register of sound effects...
For instance, from now on, I’m walking on gravel
or on concrete.
There, now I’m walking on concrete.
Arnaud — Hey, fancy that... Now you’re actually walking on a road...
Mathilde — A road?
Ah yeah... I’m walking on the verge of a motorway.
On the emergency strip.
Sébastien — Yes, you’re on the motorway... And it’s nighttime.
Mathilde — Oh yeah, it’s dark?
Sébastien — Yeah, night has fallen.
But it’s a summer night you see, so it’s warm.
Mathilde — All right, a summer’s night. Got it.
I’m walking on the side of the motorway because my car just broke down.
I tried to start the engine a few times but nothing is working.
And now my phone has started ringing.
Hello?
Ah, it’s a great time to call, because guess what? I just broke d...
Hello?
Ah yeah, great...
Okay... So my phone is dead... Broken...
OK. It’ll be all right, I won’t panic. I’ll walk,
I will surely find someone, or a petrol station...
Arnaud — Ah no, wait a second...
Let’s say that you’re not on a motorway, you’re on a deserted side road.
You’ve already been walking for 20 minutes and not a single car has passed.
Math — Ah yeah, I’m stuck in the Styx then.
Plus I don’t really know where I am because I was following the GPS before and didn’t pay attention...
Séb — Let’s say you’re somewhere in Auvergne for example....
Math — In Auvergne? Are you sure?
Séb — Yeah.
OK... I think I passed Montluçon not long ago...
Other than that... 
Ah yes, I know, I think I must be in what’s known as the Combrailles Ranges.
Arnaud — Ah yes, that’s not bad, the Combrailles...
Hey... wait, imagine, now it’s also really pitch black... 
Mathilde —  Pitch black? 
Mathilde —  Um... Wait, it’s getting complicated, I can’t see where I’m walking at all.
Arnaud — Plus it’s starting to get a bit chilly.
Mathilde — ....Ah yes, and I left my sweater in the car earlier,
because I was a bit hot under the collar after the breakdown, so I left like this,  
thinking, that’s that, but at least 
it’s summer, it’ll be nice out...
But now, I can’t see anything, there’s no one around, 
I don’t know where I am, my phone is dead...
It’s starting to get a bit scary...
Arnaud — Well, let’s say there is at least the moon 
that is feebly illuminating the surrounding countryside.
Mathilde — Just as well.
Arnaud — On the sides of the road, you can just make out fields and pastures,
outlined by what appear to be hedges and thickets.
Mathilde — Are you sure they’re not wild animals, like boars of that kind of thing?
Arnaud — No Mathilde, those are shrubs. 
Math — Ah, hang on.
Arnaud — What?
Math — I spy a light over there,
it looks like it’s coming from a field a bit further off.
Well, I’ll go check it out...  
Maybe someone’s there who can help me solve my radiator hose issue.
Brigade — So here I go, I’m going through a fence, 
now I’m walking in the grass,
it’s a bit steep, 
and at the back of the field, I can make out a kind of small wood...
and at the edge of the wood... there’s a tractor...
Yeah, that’s it, some kind of little farm machine.
It must be a farmer who works alone, in the fields, by night,
as you see sometimes when you’re on the motorway...
I’m still going, still walking...
And I hear music...
Yeah, that’s it, there’s music coming from the tractor.
So I walk on a bit further... There... It’s not far now...
Ah... There’s a guy all alone in the tractor and...
It looks like he’s talking to himself...
Yeah, that’s it, he’s talking to himself quite loudly in fact,
but what’s he doing? Talking into a mike?
Jacques — Another time, another place, 
lyrics by Dire Straits that you might think were made to measure for our show.
Brigade — A show...  ?
Jacques — You’re listening to the Sound of the Combrailles, 
this is Jacques and I’m very happy to be here with you.
Brigade — What? Is he doing a radio show? From his tractor?
Jacques — Another time, today, on the _XXX_
Brigade — What should I do, go see him?
Jacques — And another place, and in front of me, a sloping valley, 
behind me a wood petering out.
You’re live, here, in the heart of the Combrailles Ranges.
Brigade (walking) — Right, too bad, I’m going over.
Jacques — I’ll take this opportunity to extend my warmest thanks to Mr. Claude Lengrand, who allowed us to...
Brigade — Excuse me! I’m sorry, I really didn’t want to scare you. My car just broke down and...
Jacques — Wait a second, guess what I’ve just seen emerging from the darkness?
What appears to be the surprise guest of the week.
“Surprise” being the operative word, as you will have heard.
Come in, sit down. Don’t be scared. Have a seat.
I’d imagine that, like me, you’re wondering what has given us the honour of this visit, 
so let’s perhaps start by getting to know each other a bit.
What’s your name?
Jacques — But please speak into the mike.
Brigade — Brigade.
Jacques —  Welcome Brégade! I’m Jacques.
So, what brings you to visit us in the middle of Mr. Lengrand’s field?
Brigade — Well, actually my car just broke down on the road down below. So I was looking for help...
Jacques — Ah, it would appear that Brégade’s car has broken down on secondary road 86.
What exactly is the matter with the car?
Brigade — I’m not too sure, but I suspect it’s a hose problem,
because I had the same issue last year. 
But I just need a clamping collar to make a little socket.
I used to have one in the back but I lent it to a friend,
it’s really unlucky...
Jacques — Why yes, that’s really unlucky, hose problems are always tricky. 
Look, unfortunately I don’t have a clamping collar...  
But I almost want to thank that hose,
because thanks to that, I’m lucky enough to have a bit of company this evening on this show.
Dear listeners, please allow me two minutes,
long enough to welcome our guest this evening in the proper fashion.
Jacques —  Close the door, please.
Jacques — Well, what a story!
Brigade — So then... you do a radio show in your tractor?
Jacques — Yeah! Yes, that’s right. It’s a web radio. 
We have a satellite connection there,
so we can set up wherever we like in the region.
Brigade - So are we transmitting live then?
Jacques - Absolutely! Well, for now we’re off-air.
But the show is live.
Brigade — So, what, do you do that regularly, here and there, in different places?
Jacques — Yeah, the idea is really to try to find the most remote spots.
It’s pretty funny to think of making a radio show in the middle of nowhere, isn’t it?
Brigade — Yeah, it’s crazy. So, where are we exactly?
I’m not from around here at all. We’re in the Combrailles Ranges, right?
Jacques — Ah that’s funny! 
Do you know the name of the show?
Well, it’s perfect, listen...
Jacques — So we’re back, for the sequence that gave its name to this show.
Ladies and gentlemen, I suggest you listen for a moment to the Sound of the Combrailles,
and who knows, maybe you’ll manage to guess where we’re hiding out tonight.
What you can make out, faintly, is the hum of very little motorway traffic. 
It’s, it’s, it’s...
Yes, it is our beloved A71.
Because tonight, we’re transmitting – launch your Google Earths –
from the agricultural plot 388 in Lonzais, 
between Bizeneuille and Givarlais, for those in the know!
And if any of you feels like coming to join us –
maybe to bring Brégade a certain clamp collar,
which she’ll need to get back on the road –
then, it’s very simple, from Bizeneuille you head for Givarlais,
and once you’ve passed Lonzais, you have to take the little dirt road that goes through the fields.
But careful, it’s a bit boggy,
you might have to finish on foot.
Brigade — Have you been doing this show long?
Jacques — It’s been just over three years now.
So now, I’m retired, but at the time I was still working.
It was an old dream of mine,
and so Samuel and I, my nephew, who is a skilful technician,
we started setting up the whole system 
and then we were off. I started doing little shows
from my tractor while I was working.
Brigade — Ah OK. But did people listen?
I mean, who are the people who listen to you?
Jacques — At first, it was mostly friends and farmer colleagues,
but it’s on the internet, so I don’t know...
Of course, there are lots of people from Villefranche d’Allier.
Last week, I got a very lovely letter from someone in Montmarault.
But, I don’t know. It’s online, people from all over...
Maybe there are people listening to us from Montluçon at the moment! It’s amazing!
Brigade — Yeah, it’s crazy.
Jacques — Right, we’ll move onto the next programme.
But wait a sec, I have an idea...
Brégade, you’re going to present the next bit!
Brigade — Ah no, I’ve never done any radio.
Jacques — Go on, now’s your chance!
Look, it’s a report on issues to do with the internet, you just have to read it.
Jacques — You just have to specify that it’s a partnership with these people.
Jacques — and that it’s something we do every week...
Here, your turn... Three, two, one...
Brigade — So now it’s time for our weekly report in association with the website Internet Actu,
today: “Are images still being produced to be looked at by humans?”
For artist Trevor Paglen, who has long been interested in mass surveillance,
visual culture, radically transformed in the digital age, 
has nonetheless largely become invisible.
“An overwhelming majority of images are now made by machines for other machines, 
rarely bringing humans into the loop.”
We are entering the era of invisible images!
Visual culture experts think that the relationship between humans and images... 
Brigade — AH WHAT’S THAT WHAT’S THAT WHAT’S THAT?
Jacques — Everything’s fine, calm down! It’s my nephew Samuel! He’s nice!
Brigade — But why is he dressed up?
Jacques — He’s not dressed up! He’s my nephew.
But hey, we’re live, so hop off please Brégade. 
Samuel — Good evening, excuse me, I’m Samuel, I’m Jacques’ nephew...
Brigade — Ohlala you gave me a massive fright... I thought you were a boar or something.
Samuel — No, no, I’m not a boar.
Actually, I was listening to the show, and it’s the darnedest thing,
I looked through my tools. I think I found the clamp collar.
Brigade — Ah yes, thanks. Ah no, but that’s a retaining clip, it’s too small. It won’t work.
But why are you dressed up?
Samuel — I’m not dressed up...
Oh this is my folk costume, it’s to celebrate the connec --
Jacques — Samuel! Get the mental projection ready!
Samuel — Ah yeah, OK.
Come with me Brigade, you can help me set up the circuit.
Brigade — The circuit?
Samuel — Well it’s a little thing I’ve prepared for later.
It’s nothing fancy, just something on the show’s website...
Jacques — I must say this show has been full of emotions,
so maybe let’s try to bring back a bit of calm and serenity,
by moving on to a very different part of the show,
a device designed by Samuel,
a mental projection experiment in domestic space.
So here we are, dear listeners.
You’ve been listening for a while.
You are projecting yourself here, using your ears,
you are possibly trying to represent the space... 
To imagine how we’re arranged, the positions we find ourselves in.
You’re trying to ascertain the vibe.
Incidentally, I must explain that I’m now speaking to you alone,
the spectators in the theatre can no longer hear me.
But so far this has all been going in one direction, 
and I want to suggest trying to reverse the projection,
so that now those of us here try to imagine you over there, 
that we go against the current, a bit like salmon going back upstream.
How are we going to do this?
Well, first we’ll ask you to volunteer for the experience, 
and we’re going to randomly choose one of the volunteers,
and he or she will get to answer some very simple questions, which I will be asking,
just by clicking on the buttons that appear on your screens.
So there you go, so someone will initially be chosen at random
and very quickly you’ll see that everyone can participate.
So see you shortly.
Brigade — what’s the principle of mental projection? 
Samuel — Ah, Jacques has been obsessed with it for a while
Samuel — he absolutely wanted to try reversing the flow 
B (voice-over, to herself) — OK... 
OK, they’re gone now.
They’re both completely transported,
well, actually they’re explaining the same thing,
they’re talking about inverting flows, 
as if there were a flow of mental projection,
and that for the last few minutes it’s only the listeners 
who have been visualising our reality,
who are projecting themselves here,
and now they want to reverse the direction of the projection
they want to go against the current of that projection 
like a salmon going upriver
to restore some balance to the connection...
And so what we’re going to do here is project ourselves
into the home of a listener who will be chosen at random,
and who will be directly connected to Samuel’s computer...
And so how does that work, technically?  Well, Samuel is explaining it to me...
What is he saying? 
Samuel — ... and it’s sent to the administrative dashboard
And so there you go, Brigade, you see, people click
and I hear the answers
and I just repeat them.
That being said they added a little effect to my voice, to go with the costume...
Jacques — OK, is it ready, Samuel?
Brigade — Uh, Jacques, I think I might go...
Jacques — No, no Brégade, stay with us:
Jacques — you’ll see, it’s the best part of the show.
Jacques — and by the way I will definitely be needing you.
Jacques — Do you speak German by any chance? 
Jacques — Brégade is German, right? 
Brigade — No, not at all...
Jacques — So, maybe you speak English?
Brigade — Yes, I mean, I get by well enough... 
Jacques — Certainly better than I do. That’s perfect.
Jacques — Ok, well listen to me, everybody. 
Jacques — What’s going to happen is that we aren’t going to be able to surtitle the next sequence.
Jacques — because we just don’t know what’s going to happen.
 Jacques — So, in order for everyone to understand the experience, 
Jacques — Brégade is going to directly translate my questions. 
Jacques — Thanks, Brégade, and clearly thanks once again to that radiator hose... 
Jacques — OK, let’s go, it’s on. 
Brigade — Has this ever happened to you:
you’re in front of your computer,
you launch a search engine, Google or another one,
and you’re ready to type a word in the search bar,
your fingers are suspended over the keyboard,
the cursor is blinking,
and then you say to yourself that the search request you’re going to type
might change the course of your life?
Has that ever happened to you?
Jacques — do you happen to have a telephone on you?
Would you be interested in testing out another type of connection with us?
Let’s play the silent telephone connection game.
Let me explain what it’s about.
We’ve also got a phone here, it’s Samuel’s.
We’re going to show you the number, those of you at home.
You’re going to call us, we’ll take the first call,
And when we pick up, what’s going to happen?
Well, we won’t say anything
We’re going to be completely silent
in order to get a taste of the very essence of the connection.
We’re going to establish an absolutely pure connection.
Samuel, can you show your number to the people at home?
Samuel — Done.
Jacques — There you go, the number is up, you can call us, 
And remember the rule: we don’t say anything to each other,
not even hello, nothing.
Go ahead.
So there you have it,
there’s nothing but the connection.
Us, here in the room,
connected to you, at home.
This connection is invisible,
imperceptible,
intangible.
And yet,
it’s materially there.
It’s happening through this telephone,
electric cables, relay antennas, electromagnetic waves.
If we could follow it,
we would come out of the holes in this person’s phone speaker.
They are probably listening closely
to see if they hear
a little bit of sound from the audience,
coughs,
squeaking seats.
And we’re listening closely
to try to hear them listening in.
Jacques — Thank you. You can hang up.
Jacques — Did you like that Brégade?
Brigade — Yes, it was magical, Jacques.
Brigade — (to SALM) And did you like it?
 - Yeah, yes, it was great sharing this experience with you! 
Brigade — ...uh, sorry, but what are doing Brégade? 
Brigade — ah uh excuse me, I was having a little fun playing the theatre game with your listeners
Brigade — I hope that doesn’t mess up the flow of your show? 
Jacques — Wait... the theatre game? What do you mean? 
Brigade — well, I just ask the listeners at home to read the lines that appear on their screens.
Brigade — they can read aloud the lines that appear.
Brigade — that way, they interact with us more intensely, you see what I’m saying? 
Jacques — How so? 
Brigade — Well, the text that appears behind us also appears on the screens of people listening at home, right?
Samuel — Yeah, and...?
Brigade — Well, what I do is I ask them to read the text that appears like I just did
Brigade — except that instead of reading it in their heads, they read it aloud. 
Brigade — like they were lines of a script, you know... like in theatre.  
— Like, look, Jacques... right now I’m reading all these lines that are appearing on my screen...
— I’M... READING... THE... TEXT... 
Brigade — You see? And they can use the intonation they want, it’s open to interpretation, like improv.
— I’M READING THE TEXT! I’M READING THE TEXT! YOOHOO I’M READING THE TEXT! 
Samuel — oh yeah, OK, that’s convenient  
— Yeah, but, uh, wait a second... Can anybody hear me?
Brigade — Oh no, no, you can hear yourselves but we can’t hear you here. 
Brigade — No one can hear you, not us and not the people in the audience. 
— Ha you can’t hear me?
Brigade — I mean, let’s say that we imagine what you’re doing at your computer, reading the text we’ve sent, saying it in a certain way
Brigade — like, it’s as if we could hear you, but in our heads... You see what I’m saying? 
— Ummm... yes.
Brigade — Hey. I’ve been asking myself. Do you also feel like this really makes you feel like you’re taking part in the dialogue? 
Brigade — Like that we’re speaking, that we’re here, together in the same place?  
— Yeah, it works really well.
Brigade — Ah well cool
— I mean, I can’t really give my opinion because I have to read the text that appears.
Brigade — Oh yeah, that’s true... 
Samuel — And I mean, we also have to say a prepared text, too.
Jacques — What? What? Prepared...? 
Samuel — Yeah, everything’s been written down, everything we’re saying, you know that
Jacques — Huh... ? 
Brigade — Jacques? 
Samuel — Come on, you’re pretending to not understand, right? 
Jacques — I’m pretending? I’m pretending?  
Jacques — Oh yeah, I’m pretending, of course we’re pretending. 
Jacques — That being said, we could still give people the chance to respond to certain questions freely?
— Ah sure, why not.
Brigade — Well, ok, so you can explain to us with your own words,
Brigade — Go ahead, we’re listening. 
— (you can now express yourselves freely) 
— [...] 
— ...and so it’s funny because it’s actually the opposite of just before.
Jacques — umm, what... what.. what do you mean?
— Well, earlier, on the phone, we could hear each other but couldn’t speak to each other 
— an now we’re speaking but we can’t hear each other.
Jacques — Oh yeah Samuel, that’s goes with your tetrahedron theory, right?
Brigade — What’s that? A triangle? 
Samuel — Wait... We’ve got the flow... the inversion, the counter-flow... The hut. 
Samuel — Oh yeah: flow, counter-flow, hut!
Brigade — The hut?
Jacques — The hut, Brégade: it’s a transition perfectly suited to moving on to our next sequence known as the little jamboree...
Jacques — The little jamboree is about COM-ING TO-GE-THER
Jacques — It’s the time when we all symbolically get together around our traditional little campfire
Jacques — It’s the “cosy” part of the show, the moment where we bring all the flows together, 
Jacques — where we focus our attention and all of our energy on a single place:  THE FIRE 
Jacques — The time has come... for those at home... to begin... to build their little huts. 
Jacques — Go!   And during this time, on our end, we’re going to install our traditional little campfire. 
Jacques — And listen, this is all very moving, but: see you a bit later here on stage! 
Jacques — Um, where are you going, Brégade?
Brigade — To look for some wood?
Jacques — No but wait, it’s not real wood. Samuel, do you want to take over...
Samuel — Yes, so, at home, they’ve gotten their materials together...
since what you should know is that with them, we started the show before you came into the room,
and we asked them to get some materials together.
And so now they’re building a shelter, a little shack,
it’s rudimentary, they’re using what they’ve got at home,
a basic one is a sheet hung between two chairs,
you can add a broom handle in the middle, for example, to have a little more space,
ok so now you’re building the huts 
but you’re not done, right?
No, not yet
Samuel — Perfect... As for you, you can open the envelope you received earlier
Jacques — Here, Brégade, an envelope.
Brigade — Oh, yeah... ok.
Oh no, this diagram seems complicated.
ALL RIGHT, WE’VE ALMOST FINISHED THE HUTS
Samuel — Oh perfect, you’ve nearly finished the huts
we’re going to get set up around the fire.
Jacques — the fire, which is still out.
Brigade — It’s out.
And the logs are fake, they’re electric logs.
I’m guessing the question is: who’s going to light them?
Samuel — And the answer is: the listeners.
And they’ll be able to do it once they’ve finished preparing the final missing piece...
Jacques — The hot drink.
You see Brégade, to perfect the mental visualisation that people are going to have in their huts,
what we need is a hot drink.
Can you picture the scene a bit?
People all cosy in their cocoons, in their little hideaways
with a steaming mug of tea to boot?
Séb — So, let’s go,
those at home can get up,
go to the kitchen, boil some water,
we’ll wait for you here
and when you’ve got your cup in hand 
come back and get comfortable in your huts,
and that’s when you should click on the button
“all set, I’ve finished preparing my hot drink”.
You click, and that’s what will set the logs off.
So there you go, now we just have to wait...
Mathilde — It’s so exciting...
Samuel — I mean, you shouldn’t necessarily expect anything incredible.
Jacques — Samuel, you’re too modest.
Samuel — I just mean that it’s just an electric log that lights up...
but people only say that they don’t know what it stands for...
It’s not just a log...
There are people at the other end of the circuit... (WAITING FOR THE LOG)
Samuel — Brigade!  Did you see it?
Brigade — Um, yeah, yes Samuel 
Samuel — No but that, there, do you see it?
Brigade — Uh, yeah I see it...
 That’s someone, there’s someone there! 
So, well, I should say hello, 
Welcome to your hut,
make yourself comfortable...
So, the last thing you’re missing is music,
It’s the final layer, which we’re going to generate ourselves
to be with you in your hut,
Jacques, go ahead, can you play some guitar,
Jacques — Of course Samuel, (begins guitar), dear listeners, all you have to do now is relax...
Brégade, you can join me.
Brigade — Um, ok, why not, 
Samuel — I’m looking at a log, but it’s like I’m really seeing you.
It’s really not just connections here,
You’re actually really here.
OK, I’m leaving the log, 
I’m getting to the power cable, 
then to the dimmer,
which is linked to the light console,
which is itself linked to the computer,
which is in turn linked to the server,
which allows us to connect to the show’s website,
and behind the site there is a hand,
which is linked to a person,
who is in an entirely different reality,
and who is observing the contrast.
Because there’s a pretty damn big contrast between OUR reality,
for those of us here on stage, with the audience seated in the theatre,
and n the other side, where there’s someone alone,
sitting peacefully in their hut with a little bowl of hot water,
and there’s friction, these two realities are actually rubbing up against each other
and what’s making these two realities rub up against each other?
Well, it’s the log...
But it’s just an electric log...
Brigade — Mhmm... but it’s still a fake log and it’s starting to get a little chilly...
You wouldn’t happen to have a blanket in your truck?
Samuel — Ah yes I do, I’ll go get it.
Jacques — So, Brégade, where were you going in your car like that?
Brigade — South. To the Camargue.
Jacques — Ah, the Camargue is pretty.
Brigade — But Jacques, I have to tell you something,
it’s not Brégade, it’s Brigade with an “i”.
Jacques — AAaaaah it’s Briiiiigade,
ah I was confused, I didn’t understand! 
Did you get it, Samuel?
Samuel — uh, yeah
Jacques — Ah ok, but so then... that’s your surname?
Brigade — No, no, it’s my given name
Jacques — Isn’t that a bit hard to handle?
Brigade  —Yes, but there’s a thing that works really well,
if you repeat it a bunch of times, at some point,
it changes and it becomes pretty.
Try it, you’ll see 
Brigade — Go ahead, keep going.
Brigade — You too, Samuel, do it.
Brigade — OK, ok, that’s enough, stop, you can stop now!
Samuel — Ah, it really is pretty...
Jacques — Oh yeah, I was into it.
Samuel — And um... What are you going to do in the Camargue, Brigade?
Brigade — Oh, I’m going to do a training course.
Jacques — Oh, ok... A training course in what?
Brigade — A training course in aquatic pony riding
J & Samuel — What???
Brigade — It’s true, I swear! 
Brigade — So my training course is like a mix of several things,
I know the teacher well, she’s great.
By the way, it really makes me think of things you do in your show...
In fact, we also work mainly on dissociation.
Samuel — Oh no, we don’t do dissociation.
Brigade — What? But that’s exactly what you do.
You don’t know what that is?
B — It’s really very simple. 
it’s when you try to pay attention 
to two different things at the same time.
Brigade — look, for example, you can close your eyes,
and concentrate on one of the logs, there, a glowing log.
Concentrate on it.
And now, let’s concentrate on... the cup of tea.
A steaming cup of tea at someone’s house.  
and now try to really concentrate on both at the same time
Samuel — I’ve got it
Brigade — You’ve got it? It works?
Samuel — Yeah I’ve got it
Brigade — Well, you’re dissociated.
Jacques ?
Jacques — Oh yeah it works.
Brigade — There you go, you’re dissociated. Is it enjoyable?
Jacques — Very.
Brigade — I love it, I could do it for hours.
Jacques — Yes, so, yes... maybe not now...
Look, the wind’s picking up...
there’s going to be a big storm,
Samuel, we need to put this stuff away...
Samuel — Oh yes, it’s going to start raining soon,
Jacques, can you take care of the instruments? Can you add the guitar?
Brigade — Should we unplug the logs?
Samuel — It’s ok, I’ve got it.
Brigade, there are some tarps on the right down there, can you go get them?
Jacques — Your costume, Samuel!
Samuel — We’ll put it in the wheelbarrow.
Brigade — Should I tarp the logs?
Samuel — Yes!
Jacques — So, you listeners out there, 
what would be good is if you could make it totally dark where you are.
So get out of your huts, turn off the lights,
draw the curtains, lower the blinds,
and get back in your huts
with just your computer screen for light.
Brigade — Your computer, Samuel!
Samuel  — It’s ok, I’ve got it!
Brigade — Samuel, get under cover, quickly!
Samuel  — Coming! 
Jacques — So, to explain everything to you,
we’re here, under a giant tarp that we’ve hung over the tractor,
we opened the door, to create a little more space,
a bit like a veranda, an awning, you see what I mean
Samuel — Yeah, well not exactly Jacques, it’s more than an awning, the tarp is completely covering us
Like we’re hiding, we can’t see the audience at all.  
Brigade — If I were to entertain myself with a little exercise in mental projection:
from the outside this must look like a kind of giant rock.
It’s as if we were in a cave of some kind.
Jacques — Ah! Ah!  A cave!
What a night, friends! What a show!
See how Brigade’s doing mental projection!
And she’s projecting us into a cave
You know what’s happening right now? Huh?
Well, we find ourselves in the same situation you’re in at home.
Yes, we’re quite comfy, after all. Everyone’s in their hut.
In any case, what’s calming here is the sound of the rain,
the sound of the rain falling on the canvas.
Hey...
Imagine if we were to continue the discussion like this, with the sound of the rain
and then after a while we fall asleep
Samuel — (slightly sleepy voice) Ah yes I can see it well, yes 
the audience members in the theatre fall asleep
one after another.
And you also fall asleep, over the course of the conversation
And here at home I also end up falling asleep,
And the night goes by like that.
Miraculously, everyone’s asleep.
And then at some point
The rain stops
We feel the first glimmer of dawn beginning to break
Things start to move about,
someone moves, someone coughs.
And then in the end
Someone sticks their head outside
Brigade — Hello
Hello
Brigade — Sleep well?
Yeaah, incredibly well.
Brigade — Yes, me too, well Jacques snored a bit.
Samuel — Oh hello Brigade,
Brigade — Hey Samuel
Ah I’m going to make a little coffee
Jacques — Uh, where did they go?
Jacques — But, it’s still broadcasting... 
No way...
Jacques — Samuel!
Jacques — We’re still broadcasting!
Jacques — We’re still broadcasting! 
Samuel — Um, yeah, I know...
Jacques — We’re live now, we need to start something...
Samuel — Uh, yeah, I dunno...
Brigade — Well, if you want, I can show you, 
at the training course we do a sort of exercise every morning.
It’s a little ritual that consists of choosing something from your house and going to say hello to it.
Jacques — That’s perfect.
Brigade — So you’re going to choose something at home.
For example, your houseplant.
So, if you want to do this at home, you can get up,
get close to one of your houseplants, 
and over here, we’re going to imagine it.
Are you there?
Hello
OK, it’s a plant,
it’s your plant.
It’s got a size, a shape, its leaves,
a colour, a pot, the colour of its pot,
You might even say you know it well.  
And in fact it knows you too.
You know each other.
And now, this morning, you’re taking a moment for just the two of you, and you look at each other.
It’s Plant.
OK, so what we’re going to do is call it that, we’re going to call it Plant.
And this plant, Plant, 
let’s say it’s your little piece of nature at home.
It’s a little emissary from the wild to the inside, 
a little Photosynthetic Talisman.
It’s as if Nature had sent you Plant 
to watch over your domain, and over you.
And this little plant in the pot there, which reigns without saying anything in your living room or your kitchen,
which is there waiting for your every night and every morning,
it’s a watchman from the tribe of Autotrophic Organisms from the Eukaryote dynasty,
it’s one species among 400,000 others, including 396,000 species of flowers,
Here you’re at home, it’s your interior space, 
is your territory, in which there are rules.
They’re yours, ones you decided to put in place, 
or maybe you didn’t really decide, who knows anymore, but anyway:
Fridge is there, and Kettle is over here,
Shelf has things in it that aren’t supposed to be? Fingernail Clipper, Corkscrew,
Buffet, standing up straight.
Someone’s sitting on Chair, over here,
someone else over there in Armchair.
You’ve had discussions.
And Plant was there.
And the whole time it’s been there,
it’s been participating in all of the events of your everyday life,
it was by your side,
while a whole series of scenarios, creations, 
guidelines that were more or less strict and more or less giant surprises were hatched.
For example:
You’re alone at home.
You’re eating spread on toast.
You sneeze.
And Plant is there.  
It’s winter, you ring your father to ask for his recipe for pizza dough.
You skate mechanically, artistically around your living room while you ring your father.
You bang into a piece of furniture and let out a slightly ridiculous seagull sound.
You open Fridge, and you end up face to face with... 4 yoghurts that have been expired for 4 days,
which you resign to tossing in the bin,
while saying to yourself, “what a waste, they might still be good”
or you decide to eat them anyway,
while saying to yourself, “it would be a waste, they might still be good”
And Plant was there.
You’re dancing all alone in your living room.
You’ve got a melody that periodically comes into your head when you wake up,
and you’re strangely certain that it coincides with the full moon.
You make big plans, you make decisions, 
you regret something, you sweep up.
And Plant is there.
You wanted to be something else. You wanted to be your computer.
And Plant was there.
Plant is the silent witness to this whole ocean of mental states, conditions and rollercoaster of emotions 
that you’ve been subjected to over the last few weeks, months, years.
Like the names of Indian chiefs that come through you one after another.
Some days — the Indian chiefs Little-Anger  
Inexplicable-Overexcitement,
Lost-Sleep 
Timid-Joy,
Great-Tranquillity.
Other days  — the Indian chiefs Major-Anger, 
Flurry-of-Internal-Combat,
Sleep-Rediscovered, 
Palpable-Joy, 
Unexpected-Relief, 
Fleeting-Euphoria.
And Plant is there.
Plant is hot because it’s hot, like you maybe,
Plant is cold because it’s cold, like you maybe
Plant is thirsty, Plant rests. Like you maybe.
It rained, it snowed, it hailed.
You had problems with your household appliances.
And Plant is there.
It knows it’s there.
And you know it.
And we know it.
Then...
You move a foot.
You can move one foot, then the other.
You move towards the window, 
You open the curtain, 
You look outside.
You take a deep breath.
You feel yourself being watched.
It’s coming from inside...
You turn around...
It’s Plant.
Ah the coffee is ready
So, there you are, that would be the end of the song...
The three of us would have a little coffee,
in the sunlight, in silence...
While sharing knowing little nods
And then the moment would come when Jacques says to Brigade:
“Maybe it’s time to get back on the road?”
You’re going to be late for your training course...”
Brigade — And so Brigade would walk down the pasture... 
Jacques — Uh, and we’d of course go with you until the car 
Brigade — We would get back to the A-road,
Jacques — the B-road
Brigade — oh yeah, yes, the B-86
Brigade — we would get to Brigade’s car
Samuel — You would do your repairs. You would fix your tube
Brigade — yes I’d fix my tube.
We’d ultimately do just fine with the retaining clip.
The car would be repaired.
Jacques — And that’s that, it would be time for last goodbyes
Brigade — Bye you guys
Samuel — Bye!
Jacques — Bye Brigade
Samuel — Um, it would be a bit moving.
then Brigade would start her car and she would leave.
Jacques — Well wait, no, you wouldn’t leave like that,
we would take another 5 minutes to go over last night,
We would exchange email addresses,
Brigade — you have an email address, Jacques?
Jacques — yes, yes I do, lebruitdescombrailles@gmail.com
Samuel — we could take a quick photo for the show’s website
Jacques — Oh yeah, excellent idea
Brigade — and then we’d chat for a few minutes with the window down, and then it would be time  
I’d give you a happy honk and then off I’d go for good.
Jacques  —and we’d stay here on the side of the road.
And then Jacques would look at Samuel
Jacques — and he’d say: “Hey...”
“Let’s go, then?”
Samuel — and so Samuel would say, “well, where?”
Jacques — To her training course... In the Camargue?
Samuel — Huh? But how?
Jacques — Well, we take the tractor
Samuel — Of course! 
And so Jacques would suggest to Samuel that they take the tractor,
saying, “we’ve done enough of Combrailles, now I want to see more of the country”
and the show, well, we’ll do it in the Camargue, it will be “The Sound of the Camargue”
Jacques — Yeah!  That’s really good!
And then they would go to be with Brigade.
Samuel — Yeah, and it would finish like that.
So, listen, I think we’re there,
we’re at that special moment when things flip,
where you get ready to extract yourself from the performance and come back to reality
And by the way, in XXX, we can totally picture how the audience
are also at that special time when their performance ends.
Here, Mathilde is coming back onstage with placards for the audience
because actually the end, like the beginning, is a time that generally follows a pretty specific protocol. 
So what we suggest 
is that you turn on the lights at home
at the same time that
we turn off the lights in the theatre.
so go ahead, get close to a light switch,
let’s synchronise, 
ready:
3
2
1
great
so we do
the final lights out
at the exact same time that the listeners
turn on the lights in their homes
ready
*black*
IT’S OVERRR
If you’re still there, it means you’ve stayed till the end
Thank you, bravo.
Mathilde, Arnaud and Sébastien are giving their regards to the audience.
Me, I’m in the control room, and I thank you too.
Congratulations on your hut,
it’s magnificent. 
Thank you for coming.
Well, actually, for staying at home.
I mean, for being there, you know.
If you have remarks, opinions, suggestions,
or to send us a photo of your hut (we collect them)
please send us a quick email at <br/>ontraverseralepont@amicaledeproduction.com  


